---
layout: post
title: "Qatten: A General Framework for Cooperative MARL"
date: 2020-02-17
tags: [MARL, DRL]
comments: true
author: dong
toc: true
---

<script type="text/javascript" async src="//cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML">
</script>
<script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
  MathJax.Hub.Config({tex2jax: {inlineMath: [['$','$'], ['\\(','\\)']]}});
</script>

**Qatten is a novel Q-value Attention network for the multiagent Q-value decomposition problem.
Qatten provides a theoretic linear decomposition formula of $Q_{tot}$ and $Q^{i}$ which covers previous methods
and achieves state-of-the-art performance on the StarCraft II micro-management tasks across different scenarios.**
[**Paper**](http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.03939)

<!-- more -->

# Introduction
In many real-world settings, a team of cooperative
agents must learn to coordinate their behavior
with private observations and communication
constraints. Deep multiagent reinforcement
learning algorithms (Deep-MARL) have shown
superior performance in these realistic and difficult
problems but still suffer from challenges.
One branch is the multiagent value decomposition,
which decomposes the global shared multiagent
Q-value $Q_{tot}$ into individual Q-values $Q^{i}$ to
guide individuals’ behaviors. There are few related works,
but they either lack the theoretical depth or perform poorly
in realistic and complex tasks. To overcome these issues,
we proposed the Qatten Attention (Qatten) network, which
consist of a theoretical linear decomposing formation from $Q_{tot}$
to each $Q^{i}$ and a theoretically accountable multi-head attention
implement. Combining the decomposing theory and tactful practice, Qatten
achieves state-of-the-art performance in the challenging and 
widely adopted Startcraft Multiagent Challenge (SMAC) testbed.

# Motivation


### References
- [Sunehag, P. et al. Value-Decomposition Networks For Cooperative Multi-Agent Learning Based
On Team Reward. In Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent 
Systems, AAMAS ’18, pp. 2085–2087, 2018.](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3237383.3238080.)